README.md, before:

# Buildkite Collectors for Ruby

**DEPRECATION NOTICE**
Versions prior to 2.1.x are unsupported and will not work after mid-2023. Please upgrade to the latest version.

Official [Buildkite Test Engine](https://buildkite.com/platform/test-engine) collectors for Ruby test frameworks ✨

⚒ **Supported test frameworks:** RSpec, Minitest, and [more coming soon](https://github.com/buildkite/test-collector-ruby/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22test+frameworks%22).

📦 **Supported CI systems:** Buildkite, GitHub Actions, CircleCI, Codeship, and others via the `BUILDKITE_ANALYTICS_*` environment variables.

## 👉 Installing

### Step 1

[Create a test suite](https://buildkite.com/docs/test-analytics), and copy the API token that it gives you.

Add the [`buildkite-test_collector`](https://rubygems.org/gems/buildkite-test_collector) gem:

```shell
gem install buildkite-test_collector
```

Or add this to your Gemfile’s test group:

```ruby
group :test do
  gem 'buildkite-test_collector'
end
```

### Step 2

#### RSpec

Add the following code to your RSpec setup file:

```ruby
# spec/spec_helper.rb
require 'buildkite/test_collector'
Buildkite::TestCollector.configure(hook: :rspec)
```

Run your tests locally:

```shell
BUILDKITE_ANALYTICS_TOKEN=xyz rspec
```

#### Minitest

Add the following code to your Minitest setup file:

```ruby
# test/test_helper.rb
require 'buildkite/test_collector'
Buildkite::TestCollector.configure(hook: :minitest)
```

Run your tests locally:

```shell
BUILDKITE_ANALYTICS_TOKEN=xyz rake
```

### Step 3

Add the `BUILDKITE_ANALYTICS_TOKEN` secret to your CI, push your changes to a branch, and open a pull request 🎉

```bash
git checkout -b add-buildkite-test-engine
git commit -am "Add Buildkite Test Engine"
git push origin add-buildkite-test-engine
```

### VCR
If your test suites use [VCR](https://github.com/vcr/vcr) to stub network requests, you'll need to modify the config to allow actual network requests to Test Engine.

```
VCR.configure do |c|
  c.ignore_hosts "analytics-api.buildkite.com"
end
```

## 🗨️ Annotations

This gem allows adding custom annotations to the span data sent to Buildkite using the [.annotate](https://github.com/buildkite/test-collector-ruby/blob/d9fe11341e4aa470e766febee38124b644572360/lib/buildkite/test_collector.rb#L64) method. For example:

```ruby
Buildkite::TestCollector.annotate("User logged in successfully")
```

This is particularly useful for tests that generate a lot of span data such as system/feature tests.

## 🏷️ Tagging duplicate test executions with a prefix/suffix

For builds that execute the same test multiple times - such as when running the same test suite against multiple versions of ruby/rails - it's possible to tag each test execution with a prefix/suffix. This prefix/suffix is displayed for each execution on the test show page to differentiate the build environment. The prefix/suffix is specified using these environment variables:

```
BUILDKITE_ANALYTICS_EXECUTION_NAME_PREFIX
BUILDKITE_ANALYTICS_EXECUTION_NAME_SUFFIX
```

## 🔜 Roadmap

See the [GitHub 'enhancement' issues](https://github.com/buildkite/test-collector-ruby/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aenhancement) for planned features. Pull requests are always welcome, and we’ll give you feedback and guidance if you choose to contribute 💚

## ⚒ Developing

After cloning the repository, install the dependencies:

```
bundle
```

And run the tests:

```
bundle exec rspec
```

Useful resources for developing collectors include the [Buildkite Test Engine docs](https://buildkite.com/docs/test-engine).

See [DESIGN.md](DESIGN.md) for an overview of the design of this gem.

## 👩‍💻 Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/buildkite/test-collector-ruby

## 🚀 Releasing

1. Bump the version in `version.rb` and run `bundle` to update the `Gemfile.lock`.
1. Update the CHANGELOG.md with your new version and a description of your changes.
1. Git tag your changes and push
```
git tag v.x.x.x
git push --tags
```
Once your PR is merged to `main`:

1. Run `rake release` from `main`.
1. Create a [new release in github](https://github.com/buildkite/test-collector-ruby/releases).

## 📜 MIT License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Create new pipeline for releasing to rubygems
This adds a new pipeline.yml specifically for pushing gem releases to
rubygems.org. We use the `rubygems-oidc` plugin to swap a Buildkite OIDC
token for a temporary rubygems.org token that has permission to push
this gem - that exchange process will only work from a special Buildkite
pipeline that is triggered by a tag push to the repository.

I've updated the README with the new process. It's largely the same,
except now any staff member with access to the release pipeline can
approve the release. They no longer need to be added as an owner on the
gem [1], or need to have access to any shared credentials for our
rubygems.org user.

[1] https://rubygems.org/gems/buildkite-test_collector

README.md, after:

# Buildkite Collectors for Ruby

**DEPRECATION NOTICE**
Versions prior to 2.1.x are unsupported and will not work after mid-2023. Please upgrade to the latest version.

Official [Buildkite Test Engine](https://buildkite.com/platform/test-engine) collectors for Ruby test frameworks ✨

⚒ **Supported test frameworks:** RSpec, Minitest, and [more coming soon](https://github.com/buildkite/test-collector-ruby/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22test+frameworks%22).

📦 **Supported CI systems:** Buildkite, GitHub Actions, CircleCI, Codeship, and others via the `BUILDKITE_ANALYTICS_*` environment variables.

## 👉 Installing

### Step 1

[Create a test suite](https://buildkite.com/docs/test-analytics), and copy the API token that it gives you.

Add the [`buildkite-test_collector`](https://rubygems.org/gems/buildkite-test_collector) gem:

```shell
gem install buildkite-test_collector
```

Or add this to your Gemfile’s test group:

```ruby
group :test do
  gem 'buildkite-test_collector'
end
```

### Step 2

#### RSpec

Add the following code to your RSpec setup file:

```ruby
# spec/spec_helper.rb
require 'buildkite/test_collector'
Buildkite::TestCollector.configure(hook: :rspec)
```

Run your tests locally:

```shell
BUILDKITE_ANALYTICS_TOKEN=xyz rspec
```

#### Minitest

Add the following code to your Minitest setup file:

```ruby
# test/test_helper.rb
require 'buildkite/test_collector'
Buildkite::TestCollector.configure(hook: :minitest)
```

Run your tests locally:

```shell
BUILDKITE_ANALYTICS_TOKEN=xyz rake
```

### Step 3

Add the `BUILDKITE_ANALYTICS_TOKEN` secret to your CI, push your changes to a branch, and open a pull request 🎉

```bash
git checkout -b add-buildkite-test-engine
git commit -am "Add Buildkite Test Engine"
git push origin add-buildkite-test-engine
```

### VCR
If your test suites use [VCR](https://github.com/vcr/vcr) to stub network requests, you'll need to modify the config to allow actual network requests to Test Engine.

```
VCR.configure do |c|
  c.ignore_hosts "analytics-api.buildkite.com"
end
```

## 🗨️ Annotations

This gem allows adding custom annotations to the span data sent to Buildkite using the [.annotate](https://github.com/buildkite/test-collector-ruby/blob/d9fe11341e4aa470e766febee38124b644572360/lib/buildkite/test_collector.rb#L64) method. For example:

```ruby
Buildkite::TestCollector.annotate("User logged in successfully")
```

This is particularly useful for tests that generate a lot of span data such as system/feature tests.

## 🏷️ Tagging duplicate test executions with a prefix/suffix

For builds that execute the same test multiple times - such as when running the same test suite against multiple versions of ruby/rails - it's possible to tag each test execution with a prefix/suffix. This prefix/suffix is displayed for each execution on the test show page to differentiate the build environment. The prefix/suffix is specified using these environment variables:

```
BUILDKITE_ANALYTICS_EXECUTION_NAME_PREFIX
BUILDKITE_ANALYTICS_EXECUTION_NAME_SUFFIX
```

## 🔜 Roadmap

See the [GitHub 'enhancement' issues](https://github.com/buildkite/test-collector-ruby/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aenhancement) for planned features. Pull requests are always welcome, and we’ll give you feedback and guidance if you choose to contribute 💚

## ⚒ Developing

After cloning the repository, install the dependencies:

```
bundle
```

And run the tests:

```
bundle exec rspec
```

Useful resources for developing collectors include the [Buildkite Test Engine docs](https://buildkite.com/docs/test-engine).

See [DESIGN.md](DESIGN.md) for an overview of the design of this gem.

## 👩‍💻 Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/buildkite/test-collector-ruby

## 🚀 Releasing

1. Bump the version in `version.rb` and run `bundle` to update the `Gemfile.lock`.
1. Update the CHANGELOG.md with your new version and a description of your changes.

Once your PR is merged to `main`:

1. Git tag the merge commit and push
```
git tag vX.X.X
git push origin vX.X.X
```
1. Visit the [release pipeline](https://buildkite.com/buildkite/test-collector-ruby-release) to unblock it and confirm the new version is pushed to rubygems.org
1. Create a [new release in github](https://github.com/buildkite/test-collector-ruby/releases).

## 📜 MIT License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
